---
layout: post
title:  "Siblings - Growing Up"
categories: rt953024 people
code: rt953024
person: "Richard Tan"
---

I am the eldest boy from a large family of eight consisting of 4 boys and 4 girls. 
I was the second child and eldest boy of the family with my 3 younger brothers completing the complement of 8. As such I pretty much played by myself and let the siblings who came after me play amongst themselves. This arrangement had not led to the development of strong and deep friendship.

The level of interaction between all of us bar the first few years is in the form of  typical boys play with cars, planes, etc. The girls played with dolls and similar stereotypical toys.

The closeness of my relationship with my siblings is very much defined by the difference in our ages. I am closest to my 1st, 2rd, 3rd .. to 5th. I have grown up to be fairly independent.

We lived near the beach so every day our maid would take us to the beach in the afternoon. We would also visit the local swimming pool. We would play hop-scotch with some unearthing "clams" from the beach so that they could be doused in soya sauce and served for dinner. I must note that not everyone finds clams palatable. At the same time we would sample the local fare, such as nuts, rojak and chickpeas - whatever was being offered by street hawkers.

I was not very very close to my sisters, because of the difference in our interests. My sisters were "bookworms" and teacher's pets with their interest in reading prevailing books written by English authors such as Agatha Christie & co.. I am more for Siamese Fighting Fish, marbles and watching carpenters renovate our house, and electricians going about their business. This has allowed me to develop an understanding of what actually happens when the light switch is flicked.