---
layout: post
title: "My Spouse"
categories: rt953024 people
code: rt953024
person: "Richard Tan"
---

[How We Met](#how-we-met)

[Getting Married](#getting-married)

### How We Met

Florence and I have known each other since we were in Primary 4 of Seraya Primary School in Singapore. We lost touch after completing our primary education, each attending a different Secondary School that is adjacent to one another.
 
One day I caught a glimpse of Florence after school was over and noted the address of where she was living. I was smitten. I then sent her a letter saying that I would like to have a date with her by going to the movies.
 
We arranged to meet and I was surprised to see that Florence had brought a friend with her. Florence's excuse for bringing a friend or "chaperone" was explained by saying that the friend she had brought along expressed that she liked me. We went to the movie as a threesome.
 
We have been together since.

### Getting Married

Wedding was a private affair with no relatives in Australia.

Wedding ceremony was conducted at the St Bernard’s Catholic Church in Belmont.

Reception of around 20 guests was held at "The Eastern Lantern", a local Chinese restaurant on Malop Street in Geelong.

Florence was "given away" by Bill Clarke, a local jockey who was a friend of a Singaporean family acquaintance.
Bridesmaid and best man were Wai-Jean and Francis Foo.

Florence's wedding gown was made by Mrs "Snow" Grundy, a local friend.

Honeymoon was in the form of a driving tour of Victoria and southern South Australia. We spent the night at Warrnambool and travelled via Port Fairy, Mount Gambier and Naracoorte to Adelaide. We then drove from Adelaide to Mildura via the Barosaa Valley (stopping at a few wineries) going through Nariootpa, Blanchetown, Renmark  and onto Mildura. We spent a couple of days in Mildura and then returned to Geelong via Ouyen, Birchip, St Arnaud and Ballarat.
