---
layout: post
title: "My Name"
categories: hw139185 growing_up
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

I don’t believe my parents ever told me why they chose my name and I can’t remember ever asking them. I suspect my mother chose it and as my father had no objections, I became ‘Helen’.  

It was a popular name when I was growing up so there were always a number of other Helens as I was going through school and another Helen in my student nursing group. I suppose it was helpful to have an unusual surname (Clinch) to distinguish me from other Helens! Although a simple name, Clinch was not common and in fact we were the only ones in Hobart at the time so I would often have to spell it for people. Although unusual it didn’t bother me.

My second name, Margaret, was also very popular at the time and many girls had Margaret as either a first or second name. Both Elizabeth and  Margaret were popular because they were the names in the Royal family, Princess Elizabeth (now Queen Elizabeth) and her sister Princess Margaret. One of my sisters (Ruth) has Elizabeth as a second name and my friend who was also born in June 1945 is Elizabeth.The Royal family do seem to start trends with names. For example, Charlotte is now one of the most popular girls names and William is a very popular boys name.

Of course, like everything else, names come in and out of fashion. Names that were ‘old fashioned’ names, belonging to old ladies when I was a child,  are now very popular again. Some examples are Lillian, Irene, Amelia, Evelyn, Phoebe, Eleanor and Grace.

Choosing a name for a baby is a very difficult undertaking. One has to think about how it will sound with the surname, how it is likely to be abbreviated and the meaning of the name. Helen is a Greek name but with slight variations it has been popular in many countries, for example Hélène and Helena. It  is derived from the Greek word for sunlight and the name of the Greek sun god, Helios. Margaret also comes in many forms in different parts of the world.  For example, the Italian version, Margherita and the short Scottish version, Meg. It means ‘pearl’.

I have never minded my name, I think my parents did well in choosing it and it is one that is difficult to shorten although someone has called me ‘Hel’ and someone I knew used to call me ‘H’. I didn’t ever get nicknames either and I think I am lucky that both my names have nice meanings! The only thing I wouldn’t mind is having an ‘a’ on the end of Helen!

‘The giving of names is no small matter, nor should it be left to chance or to persons of mean abilities....’ Socrates
