---
layout: post
title: "Something I Made"
categories: hw139185 interests
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

I found this question a bit baffling. I don’t consider myself a creative person, I have not produced any works of art, I have not been a dressmaker and only a modest knitter. I cannot think of any objects I have made that warrant particular mention.
 
I do remember as a child being quite pleased when I learnt to make a sponge cake. I’m not sure how old I was but maybe about twelve. Unfortunately I’m not sure I can make such a good sponge cake now!
 
I think I have been pleased when I have successfully taken on a new role, something that was new and challenging or learnt a new skill. For example when I joined a group called ‘Toastmistresses Club’ in the early days in Shepparton and won the Speech Contest or when I finished my Arts Degree at Monash after six years of study as a ‘mature student’ and when I took on the role of running an interview program on local community radio in Shepparton.
 
I have tried to make time for other people, to phone an elderly relative, visit someone who is unwell or spend time listening to someone who is grieving. I think I always feel glad when I have done something like that.
 
But, as far as being proud of something I have made is concerned, I would have to say that I am proud of my children. I guess I ‘made’ them in that I gave birth to them and cared for them and tried to provide them with opportunities to reach their potential but of course they are their own people and are, themselves, responsible for their achievements. However, I think parents are allowed to say they are proud of their children!
