---
layout: post
title: "Legacy"
categories: hw139185 life
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

Gosh, how to answer that! 
 
I suppose I am most proud of having survived some quite challenging times and situations. I also think that the things that we find difficult in life but still manage to master are the things that prove the most rewarding. 
 
At the moment some of the challenges I am facing are my physical limitations but also adjusting to a new situation, having moved to Melbourne after many years in Shepparton - coping with a small space and lack of storage, a house that needs repairs and the difficulty of getting things done. Also, coping with driving in Melbourne where the traffic is so busy and driving can be very stressful.
 
Part of what is, at my stage of life, quite a difficult change, involves making new connections and meeting new people. I have, as you know, joined a choir and that, in itself, is a challenge. Although I was in a choir in Shepparton I do not have a strong musical background as I did not have the opportunity to learn an instrument as a child. The Alphingtones that I am singing with have a concert next month and the whole repertoire is new to me!
 
Some of the other previous challenging times in my life also involved major moves such as the year we spent in Riverside, California where Mark was born three months later. On arrival we had to find somewhere to live, a school for Simon, a Doctor, hospital and equipment for the baby. Our flat was unfurnished and although we were lent some furniture from the staff at the Salinity Laboratory we spent Saturday mornings going to Garage Sales for other things, where we had some great finds such as Fisher Price toys and books that became favourites, like ‘Sloth’s Birthday Party’. 
 
The way of life there was quite different from Australia at that time but like today, medical costs were very high and there were few community support services. It was fortunate that all went well with Mark’s birth and he was ‘disgustingly healthy’ as the Paediatrician said.
 
In later years when Stephanie and Mark were in Secondary School we spent a year in Pakistan and this really was a CHALLENGE! Again, we had to find accommodation in Islamabad, again an unfurnished house and this time in a vastly different culture. It was particularly challenging because Dennis was living in a project house in Peshawar and we were in Islamabad. Dennis would make the long and challenging drive, in his ‘Red Beast’, to visit us on Fridays and Saturdays. 
 
There is much I could say about the daily challenges of life in Pakistan but I would never get this finished! Suffice to say some were not having any water and having to chase water tankers and bribe the driver to get some delivered or having the phone cut off on a regular basis because they were doing some work nearby. Remember this was a time when we did not have mobile phones, email and all the other forms of communication that we have today and the postal service there was quite unreliable too.
 
Needless to say, the years following Dennis’ brain injury were probably the most challenging time in my life. The impact of watching someone you are close to suffering and not being able to relieve this suffering and knowing that there is no prospect of improvement is impossible to describe. There is a sense of helplessness in that kind of situation. What helped was becoming grandparents during that period. I can’t describe the sense of wonder and joy when first Anita, then Yuri were born. Maddy too arrived just in time for Dennis to meet her. Since then two more lovely grandchildren, Anya and Alex have joined us. 
 
As far as how I would like to be remembered, I suppose that I was a thoughtful, kind, caring and helpful person. That I was a ‘good’ wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, friend but really that is something others will decide!
