---
layout: post
title: "Advice to My 20 Year Old Self"
categories: hw139185 life
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

Aah! The value of hindsight. 
 
It is really quite difficult to put myself back in that place, to imagine I am that 20 year old. I think that 20 year old really did need a mentor, someone to talk to and reassure her that she was OK. At twenty this Helen was a complex mix, unsure of herself and her direction. She desperately needed to expand her horizons and explore the world beyond Hobart which was not a very stimulating environment at that time.
 
At this time she was nearing the end of her three year nursing course at the Royal Hobart Hospital. Third year nurses were often left in charge of the ward with responsibilities for which we were not necessarily well prepared. We could work ‘split shifts’, starting in the morning, having an extended break in the middle of the day then returning late afternoon to work into the evening. There were also night shifts and the ‘quick changeover shifts’. The latter was when we worked at evening shift today, finishing at 11 pm then returned the next morning to start at 7am. At the same time we were preparing for our final exams.
 
There were other pressures at this time too. The peer group trend at this time was to be engaged around this age then married at 21 or 22. Can you believe that? I knew that was not what I wanted but it was not easy to explain that to ‘Stan’ who wanted to marry me. I knew I was not ready to marry and settle down, that I somehow needed to ‘find myself’ I suppose. There was, therefore, a lot of internal conflict.
 
I would like to be able to be an empathetic listening ear to that 20 year old. To tell her that she would be OK, that she could be in charge of her own life and make her own decisions. I would say that her sole purpose in life was not to please others, that she did have the potential to do many things.
 
Above all I would tell her that she is a worthwhile person because her confidence and self esteem were not well developed. She needed to know that she did not have to be perfect, that it is normal to make mistakes but the important thing is to keep trying.
 
Finally, I would tell her that there would be challenges ahead but there would be a lot of positive and rewarding experiences in her future too and that she had the capacity to meet those challenges to become a stronger and more resilient person.
