---
layout: post
title: "School"
categories: hw139185 growing_up
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[Favourite Subjects](#favourite-subjects)

[Teachers](#teachers)

### Favourite Subjects

I attended Hobart High School when I left Campbell Street Primary School. At that time there was a streaming process for State Secondary Schools. In Grade 6 we sat an exam, called an ‘Ability Test’ to see where we should go. It was, I guess, a kind of Intelligence Test but it was a very stressful experience for me because I knew that it was important to go to Hobart High as this was considered the best. 
 
Hobart High offered a more academic curriculum than the other schools that offered technical subjects for boys and subjects for girls to prepare them for office work.
This selective system was abolished a few years later and zoning was introduced. Tasmania then developed ‘Matriculation Colleges’ for the final two years of High School and Hobart High became a ‘Matric College’.
 
In first year all the girls had to do sewing for the first half of the year and then cooking for the other half. I didn’t really like sewing, where we had to make a white overall which we then wore for cooking class. I didn’t particularly enjoy cooking class either because the teacher was large, loud and quite terrifying. The only thing I remember is that her favourite saying was ‘Garnish with parsley’!
 
I did find High School very overwhelming when I first went. Instead of one room and one teacher we had different teachers for every subject and had to keep moving rooms. When I think about the subjects I enjoyed I suppose a lot of it depended on the teacher. For example, I didn’t particularly like maths but one year when I had a good teacher it was better.
 
My preferred subject was English Literature, probably because I enjoyed reading. We studied mainly English authors such as Charles Dickens, Shakespeare and Jane Austen. Our English teacher one year was called Mr Body. He was a very large man with a large personality and a very small car. He eventually left teaching and became a food writer.
 
I quite liked languages too. French was compulsory for the first few years but I also chose to do German as an elective after first year. The teacher was German and he must have been good because some of it is still there somewhere in my brain and I have been told my pronunciation is OK. Our French teacher taught us some songs in French which I enjoyed. Our textbook featured a boy called Toto who was always getting into trouble. There was an emphasis on grammar and I didn’t really grasp the pronunciation as well as I did German. 
 
As far as the sciences went I preferred Biology and Geology. On one occasion we had to go hiking around the top of Mt Wellington. I didn’t have any hiking boots so a neighbour lent me hers. Unfortunately they were a little big and I developed the most awful blisters which were very painful and took a long time to heal and in fact my heels were never quite the same again!
 
I only spent five years in High School because we were able to qualify for Matriculation and University entrance in our fifth year. As I said this changed when they brought in Matriculation Colleges a few years later. At Hobart High School the aim was to prepare people for University but in those days only a small proportion of people went on to University. Although I passed my Matriculation exams I went nursing when I left school and did not go to University until 1972, the year I was married. This was considered rather a strange thing to do at the time!

### Teachers

I find it difficult to think of one special teacher from my childhood. I suppose there are a few I remember whom I liked more than others. The ones I liked were probably those who may have had qualities such as an enthusiasm for the subject they were teaching and an ability to convey some of that enthusiasm, or who were positive or encouraging or able to explain things clearly. I believe these traits are important in a teacher and a sense of humour helps!

Since I became an adult I have developed a great interest in the topic of education. This was sparked initially when I had children of my own, when I undertook study as an adult and it continues as I observe my grandchildren’s development and learning.

At the time my first child, Simon, was born, I was part way through my Arts Degree at Monash University. One of my subjects was Psychology and that included a unit on Child Development. This prompted a greater awareness of the way babies and young children learn. I learnt about the importance of the first five years of a child’s life when the brain develops more than at any other time and the need for infants to have a stimulating environment. I also learnt and observed in my children, the fact that children have an innate desire to learn and the importance of responding appropriately to a child’s readiness for knowledge.

Prior to Simon starting school I undertook a little research into ‘school readiness’. At that time children were able to start school if they turned five before July first. So, many children were not much more than four and a half when they started school and it was not questioned whether the individual child was ready.

I was concerned that Simon, whilst more than ready academically, would find other aspects of school challenging but the teacher in charge of the infant grades was dismissive of my concerns. In those days the ‘Prep’ year was not like it is today. It was very much a formal classroom setting and there was little opportunity for children to explore or focus on individual activities. I do believe this was not the best situation for Simon but there seemed no other option as Kindergarten was not satisfying his learning needs.

Because of this experience I decided Mark should not go to school the year he turned five in June and planned his Kinder experience accordingly. I think this was a good decision. The teachers my children had varied greatly and sometimes the ‘fit’ was not good between child and teacher. I was as involved as I was allowed to be throughout my children’s early school years, volunteering to listen to reading and so on but this became more difficult by secondary school when, at one point, we had four children in four different schools.

At the time my children were starting to move into high school I furthered my interest in education when I undertook a distant learning qualification in teaching adults (Grad Dip in Nursing Education) through the University of New England in Armidale. I was teaching nurses at this time and I found the course enjoyable and did well in it.

One of the reasons I enjoyed this course was that I found the course material very interesting. We covered different learning styles, the principles of adult learning and different ways of presenting information amongst other things. But, perhaps more importantly we had good teachers who embodied those traits that I mentioned before. They were knowledgeable, enthusiastic, encouraging and demonstrated good teaching practice. One in particular, her name was Jan, stands out.

This was at a time before widespread use of computers and before email. We received our course materials through the mail, posted our assignments and corresponded with our teachers this way. I had lengthy and interesting discussions with Jan through letters where I would convey my thoughts on the readings we were set and she would reply in detail spurring me on to further exploration of a topic.

I think Jan was the best teacher I ever had because she respected me as a learner and as someone who had something to offer. She demonstrated good teaching practice and she was inspirational because she was passionate about her subject area.
