---
layout: post
title: "Places"
categories: hw139185 growing_up
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

I grew up at 46 Ryde Street, North Hobart in a rental house. It was a single fronted, double brick semi-detached house with a small front verandah. There was a hallway on the right and three bedrooms opened off this on the left. The living room with an open fireplace (the only heating) ran across the width of the house at the end of the hallway. There was a dining table at one end.
 
From the living room you stepped down to a bathroom on the left where there was a bath with a ‘chip heater’ to heat water for the bath and on the right a small kitchen. There were steps down to the small backyard where there was a laundry, a woodshed, a toilet and lastly a shed which became my play house. In summer I used to wake up very early so I would go down there and play.
 
The laundry had a ‘copper’ where water was heated by burning wood for washing. Washing was quite labour intensive before washing machines. There was a wringer that had a handle to turn and you fed the sheets and so on through to remove the excess water.
 
The only other thing in the backyard was a rotary clothesline, there wasn’t any garden really. Down the side was a lane way and over the back fence was an engineering business, ‘Ozark’s Engineering’. This business was owned by Dennis Baird and his only daughter, Sue, became a good friend when we both started nursing. 
 
On one side of the house was my father’s furniture manufacturing business. This was a property he rented when he first moved to Hobart in about 1950 and started up his business. After a few years when his business was growing and he employed more men he bought a site a bit further away in Feltham Street, North Hobart.
 
On the other side lived ‘Shaw and Charlie’. They were a childless couple a bit older than my parents. Shaw was their surname, I have no idea what Mrs Shaw’s Christian name was but we called her ‘Shaw’. I spent quite a lot of time at their place as there wasn’t really anywhere else to go. There weren’t any other children around nor any parks close by. We didn’t know any other neighbours. There was a single woman across the road that my mother referred to as ‘an unclaimed treasure’. You would see her shaking out her mats.
 
A few doors down was the corner of Argyle Street and across this street was the North Hobart Football Ground. It was very noisy on Saturday afternoons during the football season. The only time I went there was when the young Queen Elizabeth visited. School children were lined up around the perimeter of the ground to wave flags as she was driven around in an open vehicle.
 
Also, close by in Argyle Street was a corner shop. My mother would send me there with a list of the things she wanted. Sometimes the shopkeeper had trouble reading it. This shop had small quantities of all sorts of things. It was before we had the big supermarkets we have today. Like many people we did not have a car although Charlie had a small one and occasionally we went out with them.
 
Across Ryde Street was the back entrance to the house where my maternal grandmother’s sister lived. Her name was Auntie Anne, a cheerful person despite losing most of her sight and suffering from diabetes. She was known for hiding money and then not being able to find it. The house was dark and pokey but I still liked to visit her.
 
Further away (about 10 minutes walk) were the North Hobart Shops and the State Cinema. We went there on Saturday afternoons to see English Children’s films or whole sessions of cartoons. When I started going to Brownies and the Guides it was in a church hall across the road from the cinema.
 
Next to the cinema was a small department store called ‘Soundys’. As I got older my father, who was very busy, would give me some money to go there and buy something on his behalf for my mother’s birthday. It was a bit challenging to know what to get her! 
 
About 15 minutes walk in another direction, up a steep street called Carr Street, was St James Church on New Town Road. This is where we went to Sunday School and church and also where I was married. A couple of years before I finished school and left home, the family (now 5 children) moved to live in New Town in a house my parents bought with a small orchard in front. This is where my younger sisters and brother grew up and where we were living when my youngest sister, Alison, was born.
s