---
layout: post
title: "Parents"
categories: hw139185 people
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[Traits from my Parents](#traits-from-my-parents)

[What I Disagreed With](#what-i-disagreed-with)

### Traits from my Parents
I have had to give this topic a bit of thought. It has meant casting my mind back many years. I didn’t live with my parents after I left school because nurses in training lived in special accommodation in the hospital grounds. Also, I didn’t live in Tasmania after turning twenty one so contact with my parents was when I made short visits back or via letters or phone calls. Phone calls were not lengthy because the landline telephone calls were expensive.

I am rather sad that the letters I wrote to my family from all the different places I lived, I think it is about five Australian cities and four other countries, were not kept because it would have been interesting to read them now.

I often think that as children, we don’t know a lot about our parents. I suppose that is the reason for this Storybook project. I think, and have been told, that I am, like most of us a mixture of both my parents but perhaps overall I am more like my mother in the interests, tastes and abilities I have and more like my father in personality.

This question touches on that controversial topic of ‘Nature versus Nurture’. We are born with certain personality traits but our environment influences the expression of those. During my childhood my mother was the dominant presence and influence and I believe it was only many years after leaving home that I found my own identity. Also, it does seem that our personal tendencies can be influenced by our position in the family and I believe this is true in my case as the eldest of a large family.

I do often remind myself of both my parents when I look in the mirror or use a certain expression but since becoming a grandmother I have also thought a lot about my maternal grandmother (I didn’t know my paternal grandmother). I think, in my role as a grandmother, I am more like my grandmother than my mother. I believe we can share personality traits, not just with our parents but other relatives in our extended family. I also share some traits with my aunt, my mother’s sister.

My father was always a very energetic, honest, hard working and helpful man. He had a strong sense of responsibility, was unfailingly loyal, a humble and a kind man. He was a ‘people person’ who often ran into trouble because he took on too much and tried to ‘please all the people all the time’. This meant he was constantly overwhelmed with the demands on his time and his responsibilities and this led to anxiety and impatience. He was, however, a very likeable man with a well developed sense of humour and a love of family.

I do see a lot of my father in myself. I too, am a ‘people person’, I too have a tendency to want to help or please others, often when it’s not in my own interests and this can lead to feeling overwhelmed and anxious. I too, have a strong sense of responsibility, so that once I commit to something I feel bound to follow through. I also appreciate humour and believe it to be an important outlet, especially in tough times such as we are experiencing now in 2020.

My mother was an intelligent woman, also hard working on the domestic front and after I had left home became increasingly involved in the community and was on committees for a number of Hobart organisations and often in the role of president. She valued education and encouraged me to stay at school to complete my Matriculation even though it wasn’t necessary for nursing. I am grateful for that as it enabled me to go to Monash University in 1972, the year I married. Literature, films and music were keen interests of hers which I also share and in later life dogs were always an important part of her life. My mother had a strong sense of justice and interest in people of other cultures.

Both my parents were principled and had a strong sense of integrity and I think this has been an influence on me.

### What I Disagreed With

This is a tough question for me. It was not common for children to be allowed to express opinions when I was a child, especially not in my case.  Children were supposed to ‘be seen and not heard’ as the expression goes. We did not have dinner table conversations which involved the whole family, for example. In fact I remember my mother saying ‘Less talking and more eating’.
 
My mother was the main presence in our home and she did have quite definite opinions about things which were conveyed to us in various ways. There wasn’t a concept of coparenting, the house and the children were the domain of my mother. Behaviour and opinions were either acceptable or not and whilst I may not have felt comfortable about this, I certainly learnt that it was not possible to argue or disagree with an adult.
 
As a consequence I was very timid and quiet, especially around adults, and my school reports stated I was a ‘quiet student’. In fact the male teacher I had in Grade 4 stated I was ‘too quiet’. This was not considered a problem by anyone else as far as I know, but he obviously realised I was timid and lacking confidence and needed encouragement to speak up and give an opinion.
 
It was not until I was an adult and had left home that I finally felt able to disagree with my parents. The time that sticks in my mind was when I confided in my mother that I had refused a marriage proposal from a boy called Stan. I was just 21 and did not feel ready to get married and start a family. I did feel really conflicted because I did not want to hurt Stan who was very kind and thoughtful and caring. My mother was furious because she thought he was a very good marriage prospect. He was an only child who lived with his mother and grandmother and was five years older than me. He had a steady job and was secure financially. He had never known his father who had been killed during the war. This was a very tumultuous time for me and was the main reason I left Tasmania. Although I was sad to leave the rest of the family for whom I felt very responsible, I felt I had to leave to be able to live my own life and to learn to make my own decisions.
