---
layout: post
title: "Children"
categories: hw139185 people
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[Deciding to Have Children](#deciding-to-have-children)

[My Best Advice](#my-best-advice)

[Tough Decisions](#tough-decisions)

### Deciding to Have Children

As a child I always imagined myself as a mother. I seem to remember imagining I would like to have children when I grew up whether I ended up married or not. This, as I realised when I was older, would have been very radical in the 1960s or early 70s! It would have also been quite shocking to my family. In fact the term ‘single mother’ was not a term one heard in those days. I think women in that position were called ‘unmarried mothers’ and they incurred quite a lot of social disapproval so it was not something I thought I could do. Also, once I had children, I couldn’t imagine how anyone would cope as a single parent. I think it would be incredibly challenging.
 
I certainly didn’t rush into marriage and having children in terms of what was ‘the norm’ or expected thing in those days. The standard seemed to be to get married and start a family at 21 or 22. How times have changed! There was someone keen to marry me when I was that age but I didn’t feel ready to ‘settle down’. 
 
I suppose once married we didn’t wait long to have children. It just seemed the appropriate next step and I was keen to be a mother so Simon was born two years later. I was already, at nearly 29, considered ‘old’. The medical label was ‘elderly primigravida’, meaning older than average to be having your first baby! I didn’t feel overly confident with my first baby and looking back I wish I had known then what I know now. I would have been a more relaxed mother. Sorry Simon!
 
It also just seemed logical to have another child although, given that Simon was a rather ‘busy’ child, it wasn’t a rushed decision. Stephanie was born almost three years later. I didn’t think I was focussed on having a daughter, perhaps I saw myself more as the mother of sons, but it was, and is, very special to have a daughter. 
 
Most people were of the opinion that ‘one of each’ was enough, especially when you had a boy and a girl. Families had become a lot smaller but somehow two didn’t seem quite right to me. I was used to a large family as the eldest of six.
 
Therefore, we had our ‘bonus’ or extra child in the form of Mark three and a half years after Stephanie. This was a fairly challenging time since I was in the early stages of pregnancy when Dennis came home and announced that he had the opportunity to go to California for a year’s experience with the US Department of Agriculture. He had been working in Salinity Research at the Victorian Department of Agriculture at Knoxfield in Melbourne and this was a great opportunity to work with American colleagues in this field.
 
So, six months pregnant, with Simon almost six and Stephanie just turned three, we left for Riverside, California with five suitcases. On arrival we had to find an apartment (this was unfurnished), furnish it, buy a car (a Buick station wagon with three rows of seats), find an obstetrician and hospital, a school for Simon and baby things. It was a challenging time and I remember my mother disapproved of my going there to have the baby. It was in fact quite a risk. American health care is not like we are used to in Australia. It is, and was then, very expensive in comparison. Our medical insurance would only cover us for the amount it would cost here in Australia to have a baby and travel insurance would not cover, what was, a ‘pre existing’ complaint.
 
I relied on the fact that I had had two trouble free deliveries and fortunately all went well. It could, however, have been devastating financially if it had not gone well. So, Mark was born in June 1980, just before my 35th birthday which was my personal deadline for having children. We had our ‘American souvenir’ ( a ‘disgustingly healthy’ baby according to the American Paediatrician) who we took back to Australia nine months later.
 
I guess life may have been easier with two, rather than three children but I have never regretted having Mark. Yes, we would probably have been wealthier, two children are easier to travel with etc. Perhaps there are less arguments and sometimes it is more manageable if there is an adult to each child, however I can’t imagine life without our three.

### My Best Advice

An interesting and potentially divisive topic! 
 
I am not the first person to say this, but the parenting role is the most challenging one we take on in life and the one for which we are, perhaps, least prepared. 
 
It seems to me that beliefs about raising children depend on a number of factors including what’s in ‘fashion’ and the beliefs of the current ‘experts’ but they also vary across cultures. Perhaps too, there are traditional beliefs passed down through families, although some of us deliberately set out to ‘do things differently’ from our own parents! Undoubtedly we are influenced by our peer group and social circle and today we also have the internet and social media. The latter can be a problem in setting unrealistic standards for parents.
 
Traditionally grandparents were the available source of knowledge for new parents but less so in this rapidly changing, complex world. There certainly is a lot of information on the topic these days and I think this must be overwhelming for new parents particularly when there are conflicting views, for example on how best to manage a crying unsettled baby and sleeping problems or behaviour management strategies. 
 
I think a lot of progress has been made in the past couple of decades with fathers becoming so much more involved in the parenting role. When I was growing up a father’s role was to go to work and earn money to support the family and mothers had the main role in caring for children. This was starting to change at the time I became a parent but has progressed much further since then. Views on ‘behaviour management’ have changed too.  Whereas once physical punishment was once the norm this is now outlawed and ‘logical consequences’ are a more favoured approach.
 
Perhaps we all want to be a ‘good’ parent but clearly perfection is impossible so we all just try to do our best and muddle along as best we can with the resources we have. We won’t always get things quite right and then we will feel guilty, unfortunately that seems to come with the role! 
 
I suppose our aim as parents is to have our children become balanced, capable, resilient, fulfilled and well functioning members of society. Whilst there is no definite ‘right way’ to raise children (after all children thrive in many different situations), there do seem to be some fundamental things that children need to thrive and this includes the need to trust that their fundamental needs will be met, to feel loved and valued. A sense of security is very important, which comes from these, but also from a sense of consistency and structure in their world where consequences are reasonably predictable.
 
Of course a stimulating environment, a sense of routine, and opportunities to express themselves physically, artistically and emotionally are also important. Whilst all of these would apply to any child, I think the challenge is that children are not, as once thought, empty vessels or blank pages when they come into the world but distinct individuals. So, somehow one has to attempt to meet the individual needs of each child and try to understand each one’s unique personality, appreciate their individual skills and talents whilst not burdening them with unrealistic expectations.
 
Although we all have doubts about ourselves as parents I am comforted by the thought that I must have done a reasonable job considering the adults my children have become. And, I am particularly proud of them all in their role as parents.
 
However, the final word comes from Ogden Nash:
 
 <em>‘The wise child handles father and mother<br>
 By playing one against the other’</em>
 
Watch out for those ‘wise’ children!

### Tough Decisions

I believe that the challenging job of raising children involves decisions on a daily basis. They might be seemingly trivial ones such as what you give your child to eat in response to the frequent wails of ‘I’m hungry’, what programs you allow them to watch on television or more serious ones such as, ‘How ill is this child, should we seek medical advice?’ or ‘What Secondary School should we send our child to?’. They are probably all important decisions really which is why parenting is challenging!

I suppose we just try to make the best decisions we can based on the information and resources we have available to us at the time. Google was not around so I relied on written information in books and magazines, courses and talks on parenting and tips from friends. One of the major pieces of advice given was that one should always be consistent dealing with children. That was not easy and I didn’t succeed on that front I’m sure.

I remember being told that I was ‘the toughest mother in Australia’ or maybe the world and I think that was in relation to what programs could be watched on television or maybe what movies at the cinema. I know there was a stage where a certain child said he hated me on more than one occasion but I have no idea why that was. He hasn’t said it lately so I guess that’s good!

Many major decisions seemed to be in relation to schooling. Children were able to start school at four and a half years at that time. I was concerned about this but for Simon there seemed no other option at the time. As it happened, due to our year in California he ended up finishing school a year later anyway. We then made the decision to send Mark a year later than he could have gone. This was not common practice but I think it worked out well. All my children had a variety of Secondary School experiences for various reasons and this involved some difficult decisions but I’m happy to say they have done well either in spite of this or because of it!

However, I think the most challenging aspect of parenting for me was in regards to ‘letting go’. This starts the first time you leave your baby with someone else and continues through to when they leave home. With young children it was about allowing them to stumble as they learn to walk, to watch them climbing something rather high without discouraging them, to allow them to be adventurous and try new things. It seemed to be a fine line between allowing them the freedom to explore and ensuring their safety.

Most of this learning to let go is more intense with the first child. The first time the first child goes to school and is away from you for the whole day, the first school camp and so on. I remember the awful feeling when I put Simon on the yellow school bus in California. I felt I was sending him off to an unknown world. It was so different to school here where you walked your child to the local school which was nearby and familiar. Living in Shepparton meant my children left home to go to University or in Simon’s case to go to Boarding School a few years before that. Leaving them in Melbourne and returning to Shepparton was difficult. I felt as if we had abandoned them!

Perhaps we were fortunate; parents today have many challenges that were not a feature of society in the 1970s and 1980s.