---
layout: post
title: "Food"
categories: hw139185 interests
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[Favourite Foods](#favourite-food)

[Food in Childhood](#food-in-childhood)

### Favourite Foods

I enjoy good food, I have a good appetite and most of the time I enjoy cooking but it is also nice to have a meal cooked for you. I do have a tendency to over cater and to want to ‘over feed’ people!
 
I was known as a ‘picky eater’ as a young child and would be made to sit at the table for lengthy periods after everyone had left in order to finish the food on my plate. I suppose by the time there were several younger siblings there was less focus on me but the fact was that I didn’t enjoy most of the meals that were served in those days. I particularly loathed any meat with fat on it and the unappetising appearance of most of it. I think the worst things were Irish Stew which was grey in colour with tough, grisly meat and lamb shanks served in white sauce with parsley. Vegetables tended to be over cooked in a pressure cooker so I didn’t like eating vegetables in those days and I didn’t start to enjoy vegetables until I was much older. As a result of all this I was quite skinny!
 
I did like salads when we occasionally had them and roasts, particularly the potatoes. Also my mother made nice rissoles. When I was allowed to choose a food for my birthday I chose potatoes baked in their jackets with cheese inside. 
 
We did not get greatly involved in the cooking when we were young and I’m not sure how I started making sponge cakes as I don’t think my mother made them. I was given a Little Golden Book one year and it had some recipes including one for scrambled eggs and I’m not sure what else but that got me started with cooking. On Sundays we usually had a roast dinner at lunch time which was all right except the washing up, which we children did, took forever after that. On Sunday evenings my mother didn’t feel like cooking and since we had eggs, I started making scrambled eggs. I think this may have been the very first thing I cooked on my own. I don’t know what age I was, perhaps about nine. On Sunday nights there were hymns on the radio and this was at the time we were eating, so a family tradition started of ‘Hymns and Scrambled Eggs’ on Sunday nights.
 
What are my favourite recipes? That’s hard to say. I do enjoy baking for family and friends. Probably I have made more batches of Anzac biscuits than anything else. It is good to see my grandchildren enjoying baking now too. Maddy has just mastered my ‘Chocolate Fork’ biscuits. Some things I have made only at Christmas time, for example shortbread and some spicy oatmeal cookies with green or red glacé cherries. When my children were young we used to make and decorate Christmas Tree cookies to give to people.
 
I have, for a long time, had an interest in nutrition so some people regard my cooking as being ‘healthy’ and even with baking I tend to try and make things a little ‘healthier’ by reducing the amount of sugar for example. I suppose the things I cook have changed over the years. When I was cooking for six people I had to think of things that most people would like even though, ‘you can’t please all the people all the time’!   
 
Now I only have to think about myself so I cook what I feel like eating on a particular day. As you know I don’t eat meat so the things I make may involve eggs, often frittatas, or a dish with a variety of vegetables, such as a vegetable curry with chickpeas or lentils, or a stir fry with tofu. In winter I like making a thick vegetable soup and in summer, salads. Most of these things involve more than I need for one meal so I then don’t have to cook the next day.
 
I am not trying out many new recipes these days although I do cut out numerous recipes that sound interesting from magazines and newspapers. I have been doing this for years and have piles of them but have not used many of them! I don’t tend to use recipes much, I tend to make things up or ‘modify’ a traditional recipe. 
 
One thing that’s interesting is that home cooking has traditionally been the role of the female and men were discouraged from being in the kitchen but this has changed. Certainly it was my role too in our home until later in our married life when Dennis was at home between consultancies and I was working. He started doing some of the cooking then and of course both Simon and Mark are good cooks.
 
It is hard to choose a ‘best meal’. I remember the first time I had spaghetti marinara in an Italian restaurant in Melbourne when I was about 19. It was a revelation to someone who had only seen spaghetti come out of a tin! It was very good. More recently I would say it was a meal in Japan. Exquisitely presented, fresh and appetising with a number of different, small dishes. That is the way I like to eat, not too much of anything but a variety of tastes. 
 
I think food is very important, it should be nutritious but it can also be enjoyable and tasty. It does not have to be complicated but it should always be well presented.

### Food in Childhood

It will seem very strange to you but most of the time I went home for lunch. My mother didn’t go to work and during my primary school years my father’s business was next door so it was easy for him to do that too. We did not live particularly close to the school and I now think it must have been very rushed getting home, eating and getting back to school. Maybe we had a longer lunch break in those days?

It may have been a disadvantage not being at school during lunch time because it meant I didn’t have much chance to make friends. Also, I was fairly shy and I had not had much contact with other children apart from my younger siblings prior to starting school.

In those days we had the main meal in the middle of the day. I was known to have a poor appetite as a child but I have to say in my defence that meals at that time in my home and in most others I think, were not usually very appetising! Fruit and vegetables were limited in variety, so many that are common today were not available then. We did not have things like strawberries (which I loved) except in season and blueberries were never seen. This was because we mainly had what was available locally.

Vegetables were overcooked and I tended to prefer salads but we did not have those often. I liked potatoes, particularly chips which we had occasionally. We did not have pasta and the only pasta I saw as a child was spaghetti which came in tomato sauce in a tin, like baked beans do! In fact quite a lot of things came in tins, for example mushrooms and asparagus.

Desserts were a feature of the meal and my mother made things like baked custard, perhaps served with stewed fruit in season, lemon sago and golden syrup dumplings. I didn’t really have a ‘sweet tooth’ preferring savoury things, although I did like ice cream of course! It used to come in a rectangular block in a cardboard box, not the plastic containers of today. We usually had vanilla  or ‘Neapolitan’ which was three separate flavours (vanilla, chocolate and strawberry) side by side. These were the main flavours available at that time. Today there are so many different types of ice cream!

When I did have lunch at school it would have been a simple sandwich and perhaps an apple or banana. I know there are lots of packaged treats that go in lunch boxes today but these were not around when I was a child. We did not take any drinks such as water to school but we had a small bottle of milk provided at school each day. I didn’t mind this except when the milk was warm rather than cold. One teacher would put the crate of milk near the fire ( yes, we had a fireplace in the classroom) on cold days!
