---
layout: post
title: "Fears"
categories: hw139185 personality
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

Maybe the things we are fearful of change as we go through life. I suppose living where I did in Shepparton I was worried about snakes which is not something I had had to worry about previously unless walking in the bush. Living across the road from the river, we did have snakes coming into our yard on occasion in the summer. 
 
I had to learn not to wander into the backyard in bare feet in summer and to look where I was walking. In fact more than once I almost stepped on a snake when walking the dog on the tracks opposite the house. On one occasion I think the snake got as big a fright as I did as it took off very quickly (luckily in the opposite direction to me!). 
 
I was always concerned about Gypsy getting bitten when we had her because she was fearless and would have attacked a snake, and some people in our street had lost a dog to snake bite. On one occasion when I was out, Geoff, who used to do a lot of work for me, found Gypsy in the backyard standing astride a snake. Luckily the snake could not bite her because it had a mouse in its jaws. Geoff was quite used to snakes so he dealt with it that time. I was quite glad that I had not seen this.
 
Several times I called the snake catcher to come and catch a snake and take it away because we are not supposed to kill snakes but we certainly don’t want them near our houses. It was a tense situation waiting for the snake catcher to come because I was worried the snake might move and hide somewhere where it couldn’t be found. Luckily this didn’t happen and the snake catcher relocated the snake somewhere far away in the bush.
 
I suppose I have always had a bit of a fear about heights and this has been challenged on a number of occasions when, for example, I had to walk across a fairly wide swinging bridge high over a river in Canada. I think I had Mark in a baby sling on my front at the time. Again, I think there was a similar one in Pakistan but Mark was a teenager then and probably had to reassure me as he did when I went on the Ferris Wheel with him at the Shepparton Show!
 
Also, I have felt uneasy travelling in cable cars in Canada and when I visited Chamonix. However, I was so keen to see Mont Blanc that I was able to ignore my fear of heights. I experienced this fear of heights more recently when I visited Namibia a few years ago and one of the things we did was to walk up the edge of a huge sand dune. When I was almost at the top I froze and was only able to take the last few steps with someone helping me. One thing that I know Mark has done but I would never do, is bungee jumping!
 
As a mother I naturally worry about my children and grandchildren if I know they are doing risky things and now I am older, like most people, I fear losing my independence. This can happen if we lose our mobility or have memory loss for example. It is scary to think we may not be able to look after ourselves and have to rely on other people to meet our basic needs. This does happen to many people.
 
As for risks, well, on reflection, I have probably done a lot of risky things. As I may have mentioned previously, it was risky to go to California when I was six months pregnant with Mark as our travel insurance would not cover this pregnancy and our private health insurance would not cover the much higher medical costs there compared to Australia. If there had been any problems it could have been quite disastrous. However, all went well.
 
I suppose a lot of the travel we did whilst living in Pakistan was quite risky. We flew with PIA (Pakistan International Airlines) more than once and they did not have a good reputation. The pilot announcing ‘Inshalla (God willing) we shall soon be landing’ was not particularly reassuring! I think travel in Asia was always risky. I am remembering some scary taxi rides in Delhi, some nightmarish Tuk Tuk rides in Bangkok, car and bus trips up narrow mountain roads with steep drops and oncoming traffic and of course riding in Phnom Penh on the back of taxi motor scooters (no helmets!). Maybe even living in Cambodia and Pakistan, visiting Peshawar where Dennis was working and doing a trip into the Kyber Pass was taking a risk.
 
I suppose one could say that life is risky and to really live we must take some risks but perhaps it’s about weighing these up in each circumstance and taking proper precautions. I am about to have hip replacement surgery next week and as with all surgery there are risks involved so I have thought about it carefully and spoken to a number of people. Hopefully this too will go well.
 
In summary, we need to challenge our fears and  we can’t avoid all risks but be sensible I suppose!
