---
layout: post
title: "Spouse"
categories: hw139185 people
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[How We Met](#how-we-met)

[Our First Date](#our-first-date)

[Getting Married](#getting-married)

[What I Value in My Better Half](#what-i-value-in-my-better-half)


### How We Met

I met Dennis in 1971 through family friends. I had only recently moved to Melbourne and was working as a District Nurse based at the Heidelberg centre.

I made contact with Lesley and Mil Mears whom I had met once before when I came to Melbourne, at about 14, to visit a school friend who had moved here from Hobart. My parents had met Lesley and Mil during the war when my father and Mil were serving in the Airforce. My mother and Lesley were both in hospital having their first babies at the same time. I was one of those babies and their son, Geoff, was the other one.

In 1971 Lesley and Mil lived in Heathmont and Dennis was living with them. Dennis had been briefly married to Lesley and Mil’s only daughter Margaret who was tragically killed at 19 years of age in a car accident a few months after their wedding.

I think it was the second time I met Dennis that I was invited to a family gathering at a restaurant in the Dandenongs. It was late autumn and I remember I was wearing brick red culottes, a black skivvy and boots. Lesley asked Dennis to pick me up as I didn’t know my way around Melbourne and there was no GPS in those days!

At the restaurant I somehow managed to get myself locked in the toilet and they had to pass me a screwdriver so I could get out. Dennis later told me he decided that I needed someone to look after me! He also told me that for him, it was ‘love at first sight’ and that is why the Roberta Flak song, ‘The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face’ is a special song for me.

### Our First Date

The first time Dennis asked me out was to go to a ‘Drive-In’ movie in the latter part of 1971. Drive-In movies were very popular in the 1960s and 1970s. There were movie theatres like we have now but televisions were small and black and white at first, there were not many channels, no movie channels and there were no DVDs or even videos (which came in the 1980s).

The attraction of the Drive-In was that you could watch a film in the comfort of your car, they were usually quite close by and you could eat in your car while watching the movie. It was more relaxed and casual than going to the cinema. There were usually two films shown, the feature and another film with an interval in between so people could go to the canteen on site. If it was a popular feature there would be long queues of cars waiting to get in.

The Drive-In was like a large car park with posts holding speakers at intervals. You parked your car facing the large screen and hooked the speaker on the top of your side window to hear the sound. With the advent of colour television, larger televisions with better reception and then videos (which you hired from video shops all over the place), the Drive-Ins became less popular and people preferred to watch movies at home.

I really can’t remember what film we saw that night but it could have been ‘Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid’ which was based on the true story of an American gangster in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.

As far as deciding to get married I think it was something that just evolved over the next six months. I suppose I knew Dennis was going to ask me to marry him. It was all quite low key and we went together to buy the ring some time later.

### Getting Married

I wanted a relaxed, casual, outdoor wedding.  I didn’t really want a very formal wedding and it somehow seemed inappropriate as Dennis had already had that. I may have explained that his first wife had been killed five years earlier in a car crash when his mother also was killed.
 
As it turned out the Anglican minister from the church we had always attended (St James in New Town) was not permitted to perform the ceremony outdoors so the service was in the church.
 
A couple of years before I left home to go nursing, my parents had purchased their own home in New Town. It was on a large block with the house set back up a long driveway and a lot of fruit trees in front (apricot and plum trees). The informal reception was held there. 
 
It was not a large wedding as the only extended family in Hobart was my mother’s sister. My friends in Hobart came but, unlike today, in 1972 people did not travel interstate for weddings very much and plane fares were expensive so just Dennis’ father and sister came over from Victoria. It was a very hot day for Hobart. I don’t know what the temperature was but it was hot in my long sleeved, high necked dress!
 
We spent our honeymoon on a road trip around Tasmania as Dennis had not seen much of Tasmania before this. We went south from Hobart to the lovely area of Eaglehawk Neck, from there up the East Coast via Orford and Swansea to Coles Bay. From Coles Bay we walked (you can’t drive there) to Wine Glass Bay. A deserted, pristine beach of white sand and blue water (cold even on a hot day!), a heavenly place. The name is due to its curved shape like the bottom of a wineglass.
 
We continued up the East Coast then across to the North West Coast and a place called Stanley. From Stanley we made our way down to another very scenic area, Cradle Mountain, where we stayed in a cabin and had wallabies right outside the door.  After this we went across to the West coast and the old mining areas of Zeehan, Queenstown and Strahan. 
 
From Strahan we took the Gordon River cruise. This takes you through part of the Franklin - Gordon National Park area. It is a remote and rugged rain forest area with Huon pine trees thousands of years old (can you imagine?). This area and a large area around, including Cradle Mountain, are so special that they were declared a  World Heritage Wilderness area in 1982. This means that it is considered so special that it must be preserved for future generations and not developed.
 
I hope you get to see these beautiful places in Tasmania one day!

### What I Value in My Better Half

‘Better Half’ is a very quaint, rather old fashioned term perhaps more commonly heard in my parents’ generation. I suspect it was used a little ironically and maybe more often by a husband in reference to his wife. Of course at that time and also when I was young, the only relationships were marital ones and living together unmarried was considered socially unacceptable. Divorce was uncommon and marriages were generally long. Men often died at, what we would now consider, a quite young age and a woman could spend many years alone.

Anyway, this topic is really about what qualities I valued in my husband, Dennis, who died six years ago at a ‘young’ age for these days. Dennis was intelligent, hard working, quiet, self contained and easily pleased. He was quite content with my company and didn’t require a large social network. He enjoyed the challenge of his work firstly in salinity research and then overseas development work throughout developing countries and was highly respected in his field of work. The downside of this was that it took him away from home and he didn’t enjoy doing touristy things without me. Dennis was of the generation where males saw themselves as ‘the provider’ of the family and he was concerned that he enabled us to be financially secure. His expectation was to work for many years and he never recovered from the abrupt end to his working life due to his brain injury.

Dennis had a quiet sense of humour and we both enjoyed British comedies of the 1970s and 1980s. Dennis’ favourite was the series ‘Yes Minister’ and ‘Yes Prime Minister’, closely followed by ’Rumpole of the Bailey’ and earlier there was ‘The Two Ronnies’. He also enjoyed reading and would often dive into whatever I had been reading for my Book Group. I would try to get him to discuss what he had read but he didn’t enjoy analysing literature in this way! He would spend any spare time playing the card game Patience, initially using cards but then on his computer when computers arrived. Believe it or not we did not always have computers which I know that is hard to imagine! Dennis’ musical tastes veered towards the classical and he would accompany me when the MSO visited Shepparton and of course to any musical activities our children were involved in.

Dennis was very loyal to me and our children and could be described as a ‘family man’ (another old fashioned term). He did not insist that our children follow a set path but was proud of their success in their chosen pursuits. I believe he was a feminist before that term was so widely used. Dennis always supported and encouraged the women he worked with to pursue their goals and he encouraged and supported me throughout my Arts Degree at Monash which I started in 1972, the year we were married, and also in my subsequent studies and other pursuits. I know that this was not the case for many women whose husbands felt threatened by them undertaking university courses.

He never complained about all the chores I heaped on him whether it was in relation to the children’s activities or household repairs and improvements I deemed necessary but he may not have, but once he took on a project he enjoyed it. He used to joke that I was ‘She Who Must Be Kept Happy’ and this was inspired by the television show I mentioned before.  Rumpole’s wife was known as ‘She Who Must Be Obeyed’. On reflection, maybe Dennis did see keeping me happy as an important role.

Whilst Dennis’ working life was of an academic nature he was skilled in practical tasks and very much a ‘handyman’, something I somewhat took for granted and now miss very much. I do regret that I expected too much from Dennis at times, that I was unrealistic in my expectations. In my defence, this was maybe due to my background. Perhaps though, from my point of view, the most important thing was that Dennis told me on a daily basis that he loved me and I think I was very lucky to be loved in that way.
