---
layout: post
title: "First Job"
categories: hw139185 career
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

My first paid job was in a toy store during the pre Christmas period. I was 15 or 16, still at school, but school must have finished a few weeks before Christmas. I got the job through someone my father knew, nothing changes, it’s not ‘what you know but who you know’!
 
Unlike today, it was not common to have jobs while you were still at school in those days. The school leaving age was 16 and many children did leave school then and go into the workforce. I don’t know the percentage but I suspect it was a minority who remained at school, as I did, to do the fifth year of Secondary School which was the pre University year, known as Matriculation in Hobart.
 
It was a very busy time in the Toy Shop and I was given the job of demonstrating all the wind up toys. These were made from metal and had a key which you turned to make, for example, the dog walk and wag its tail, a monkey beat on a drum or a vehicle move. I spent most of my time on the floor doing this and I imagine that’s why I was given that task. I’m sure the older staff members did not fancy doing that. I must say it did get a bit monotonous.
 
I felt very grown up (although I didn’t look it as I appeared younger than my actual age) travelling to work on the tram everyday and earning my own money which I was able to use to buy Christmas presents for the family. The job finished at Christmas time and although I would have been happy to have a job in the next pre Christmas period, my mother said, ‘Never again!’ This was because she needed me at home helping her with my younger siblings and the domestic tasks and had found it difficult managing without me.

