---
layout: post
title: "Hobbies"
categories: hw139185 interests
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

I guess throughout life we have different interests and hobbies and it is hard to say what my favourite hobby is. One thing I have enjoyed all my life is reading and I have been in a book discussion group for many years. I first joined one of these when I moved to Shepparton in 1982 as I thought it would be a good way to meet people. We met monthly taking turns to host and lead the discussion. Even when I lived in Cambodia I was in one. I remember we read the first Harry Potter book in that group. I have now joined a group in Brunswick and in this group we meet at a local hotel and discuss our book over a meal and a glass of wine.

As you know I enjoy singing and have been a member of various choirs for a number of years. The first choir I joined was when I lived in Phnom Penh, Cambodia where Dennis was working. I joined an International Women’s Group (WIG) and one of the members, a Japanese Opera singer, started the choir. There were only 12-15 of us. We did several performances including a Christmas one where we sang American Christmas songs about sleigh bells and snow which seemed rather strange in Cambodia! I was president of the WIG  group until we returned to Australia. While I was there we organised functions and raised money for local charities.

Also, while in Cambodia, I learnt to play Mahjong. The group I played with were mainly French and some only spoke a little English so that was interesting as it was a long time since I had studied French at school. I am now playing Mahjong again here in Melbourne with Moreland U3A.

I guess you could say my involvement with U3A (University of the 3rd Age) is a hobby as I do a number of things with them. It is a group which caters for people over 50 who are retired or semi-retired. It is run by volunteers who share their skills by offering to run programs. Some of the activities are social, others are more intellectual such as learning French or discussion groups.

In recent years since I acquired an iPad I have begun playing Words with Friends. Mark introduced me to this and then I introduced a friend in Queensland and my brother in Hobart. I now play regularly with about 5 people, none of whom live in Melbourne. It is a good way to keep in touch with people as we can send messages as well as words.

Other things I have enjoyed doing throughout my life are yoga, which I started before I was married but unfortunately can’t do now and of course travelling and learning about other cultures. 