---
layout: post
title: "Friends"
categories: hw139185 people
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

[Childhood Friends](#childhood-friends)

[Close Friends](#close-friends)

[Qualities I Value in Friends](#qualities-i-value-in-friends)

### Childhood Friends

I did not have a wide circle of friends in childhood. I was rather shy at that time and because I didn’t stay at school for lunch I didn’t mix with the other children then. We had our main meal in the middle of the day back then so I always went home at lunch time. We were not close to the school. It was a long walk or a bus ride and a shorter walk and nobody else lived near me.
 
There was a friend who was at Primary School with me and also at High School. Carol always had a birthday party each year and invited me. Because her birthday was on Guy Fawkes Day there was a bonfire and fireworks which was very exciting. Carol married when she was quite young and I left Tasmania but she always kept in touch with me and visited me over the years and I would see her when I was in Hobart. Unfortunately Carol developed a brain tumour a few years ago and died but I saw her daughter recently when she came to Melbourne.
 
I had a very close friend called Jill Kauffman when I was in first year High School. Jill and I were very close and could talk for hours. Jill’s family were Jewish and I suspect her mother may have been in a concentration camp during the war. I seem to remember she had some sort of mark tattooed on her arm. I know she had asthma and never seemed very well. Jill’s family had a delicatessen in the centre of Hobart. When I had sleepovers at her house everything was a little exotic. This was the first time I had seen a continental quilt (or doona). We only had sheets and blankets in those days. Also the food was different. There were very few Jewish people in Hobart at that time so sadly for me, Jill’s family moved to Melbourne to live in St Kilda. I did miss her dreadfully. We wrote frequent, long letters to each other and I think I have mentioned going to visit her a year or two after they moved.
 
We grew apart when I went nursing and Jill was still at school in Melbourne. I suppose I had to grow up quickly in my situation so we didn’t have much in common at that time. One thing that I was very sad about was that her family were visiting Hobart some years later and one of her parents rang my parent’s house. One of my sisters answered the phone and just said I was not in Hobart but did not get any contact details. So, I lost touch with Jill. However, I have often thought that it would have been nice to track her down and meet up with her again.
 
When I left school I went nursing and I have just recently visited one of my friends from that time. Sue lives in Maleny in Queensland and we now play Words With Friends together. Sue and I had some adventures together travelling around Tasmania in her grandmother’s car on our days off from nursing.
 
I have also kept in touch with another friend from those days who has moved back to Hobart and last time I was in Hobart a group of us who all started our nursing together met up. When you are older, It is rather nice to have friends you have known since you were young, people you shared life changing experiences with.

### Close Friends

This topic is quite poignant for me at the moment as I will explain.

When I moved to Melbourne last year I thought it was important to become connected and get to know people so one of the things I did was to join The University of the Third Age. I have mentioned this before but I don’t know if I explained what the ‘third age’ is. It is the latter stage of life after raising a family and having a career. The first stage would be growing up and going to school and University I think.

One of the groups I joined was ‘Coffee, Cuppa and Chat’ and it was at this group that I met another lady called Helen who became a good friend. Helen Edwards was, like my childhood friend Jill, from a Jewish family. She had lived all her life in Melbourne so she knew it very well. Helen lived close to me so we started walking together, more so during the lockdowns we have had this year to limit the spread of coronavirus infections. There was little else we could do at this time with restaurants, cinemas, theatres and so on closed and Helen was unable to carry out her role as a volunteer with the City of  Melbourne.

We also talked most days and I suppose we supported each other through the strange times we’ve had this year. In short we became close friends which is not something that happens easily later in life. I guess we just hit it off and found we had common interests and so on.

About eight weeks ago Helen was feeling a bit unwell and after some initial tests which showed there might be something wrong with her liver, she went into hospital to have a biopsy. The day before this was the last time I saw or spoke to her. Once in hospital she became very ill and ten days later she died. This was a huge shock to her family, her friends, her neighbours, and of course, to me. She left a large gap in the lives of many people.

I have had to come to terms with her sudden passing and to realise that if I cared for her at all, I had to be pleased that her illness was short and I am able to remember her as an energetic, vibrant person. Because it turned out that she did have cancer and so may have been very sick for a long time and unable to enjoy life as often happens.

I want to share with you a few things that did help me to deal with my friend’s death. One was to establish a ‘community garden’ in memory of her, on the nature strip near her house. This was a very ‘therapeutic’ thing to do and several of her neighbours have become involved too. I was also able to talk to others about Helen. For example with some of her neighbours, other friends, her son and people who knew her through U3A. I wrote a piece about her for our U3A Moreland Newsletter where I said that I was glad that I had been able to know her. It is a fact of life that if we allow ourselves to care for others we may get hurt and it is painful to lose someone but we have to take that risk.

Good friends are not always easy to find, we must value them while we have them.

### Qualities I Value in Friends

Often we make friends with people with whom we’ve shared a particularly memorable experience over a certain period and this seems to be a bonding experience. Sometimes these friendships persist indefinitely, at other times, for various reasons, like relocation, they don’t and that is not necessarily a bad thing. There is a saying that, ‘Friends come into your life for a Reason, a Season or a Lifetime’. All of these friends are valuable.
 
The qualities I think are important are, I suppose, firstly that we should have something in common. However, not everything in common because we can learn from friends who think in a different way, who have had different life experiences and so on. Loyalty is important, especially in difficult times. Sometimes we only know who our true friends are when we are facing problems. The good friend steps in to help.
 
Good friends are people with whom you can be yourself. They are non-judgemental, understand you, accept your faults and still like you. You are able to tell them things you would not tell other people. They are honest and won’t say things just to make you feel good unless they really mean it. They bring out the best in you.
 
I think a sense of humour is a valuable asset in a friend. Being able to have a serious discussion is good but being able to laugh together at life’s absurdities is important.
 
           ‘We are all a little weird and
             Life’s a little weird.
             And when we find someone whose
             Weirdness is compatible with ours,
              We join up with them .......’
                                            Dr. Seuss
