---
layout: post
title: "Pets"
categories: hw139185 growing_up
code: hw139185
person: "Helen West"
---

My first experience of pets was the year we moved to Hobart. This was my Kinder year. We lived with my mother’s sister and her husband for that year and they had Cocker Spaniel dogs which had puppies while we were there. This was so exciting for me and was the beginning of my love of dogs. I was fascinated by their big floppy ears which would dangle in their food bowl when they were eating. There is a photo of me nursing an adult Cocker Spaniel dog taken at that time.
 
We moved from my aunt’s place when I started school and sadly I did not have a dog in my life after that. However, I did have Smoky. I think I have mentioned him before. He was a large black and white cat who did not have a tail! He was born like that because he was a Manx cat. These cats originally came from the Isle of Man (an island between England and Ireland) and they do in fact have a short little stumpy tail. Smoky was left behind in the house we moved into and immediately became my cat. He always slept on my bed (he was quite heavy when he lay on my legs)and I believed that he understood me better than anyone around me. He was a great comfort to me when I was sad, and a very important part of my life throughout my childhood.
 
Other pets we had for a short period were white mice. Someone gave my father two white mice which were supposed to be two of the same sex so they would not reproduce. This turned out to be untrue and every six weeks there was a large number of tiny, bald, pink babies in the cage so eventually they were returned to the people who gave them to my father. It had become quite a problem as they were growing out of their cage, needed to have their cage cleaned frequently and were eating quite a lot. 
I am glad that I had some pets in my life as a child and I still remember Smoky with great fondness.
