---
layout: post
title: "My Spouse"
categories: ft525039 people
code: ft525039
person: "Florence Tan"
---

[How We Met](#how-we-met)

[Getting Married](#getting-married)

### How We Met

I knew my spouse since we were in Grade 5 until we left for secondary school. One day he wrote me a letter for our first date. We hit off very well. I was interested in studies but he convinced me to take my Cambridge School Certificate if I wanted to look for a job.

We dated for a while and out of the blue he decided to further his studies in Australia. We were in love so it was a very difficult decision to make to go with him. It was such a big move for me, especially as I am very close to my family.

Somehow I decided to go with him to Australia. Because of our Chinese culture we had to get engaged before we headed off to Australia.

We arrived in Australia as mature students in 1970. Since I was only given a 1 year student visa, immediately after my course I had to leave Australia. But my spouse had another 3 years to go for his course. The only option I had was to get married and stay on. We decided to do that and eventually we made our home here. We are very happy and have a wonderful family.

### Getting Married

We both decided to get married in Australia to avoid all the cultural ceremony in Singapore. My host family Bill Clarke gave me away. His wife Joyce looked after me when I first arrived in Australia. They are friends of my mother-in-law's relative. My wedding dress was made by Snow Grundy who is the landlady of our best man Francis Foo. She is a dressmaker and volunteered to make my wedding dress. I got married from her house in Aberdeen Street in Geelong. We married in a Catholic church in Belmont (St. Bernard) with a few close friends from University and work colleagues from the Shell Refinery where I worked as an Administration Manager. We had our reception at "Eastern Lantern" Chinese restaurant in Malop Street in Geelong. We didn't have any relatives from Singapore at all. We went to Adelaide for a short honeymoon.

