---
layout: post
title: "Parents"
categories: ft525039 people
code: ft525039
person: "Florence Tan"
---

[My Parents](#my-parents)

[What I Disagreed With](#what-i-disagreed-with)

### My Parents

As a child I was closer to my mum. She was there to make sure we are well fed and happy. Also instilled on us to look after each other. As I grew older I was closer to my dad. My mom was busy looking after the grandchildren. Also dad was there to give advice and help when I needed. I only spend my last few years with him as a teenager. I left Singapore when I was around my mid twenty to Australia and stay on as a citizen.

### What I Disagreed With 

I disagreed with my parents about my education in Australia. Also I told my dad that I wanted to make my home in Australia. The only thing that I regretted, as it disappointed my dad, was getting married in Australia. But after a few phone calls to him explaining my situation and  reasons, he accepted it. 

We had a good relationship and fortunately I managed to see him a few months earlier before he passed away. He was really a fantastic dad but I didn't give myself enough chances to spend time with him. Sometimes I feel very sad thinking of him but I always know that he believes in me doing the right thing, especially trying to fulfill my future with my husband and to be independent at the same time. I am very lucky that he gave us his blessings. I will never forget what he taught and instilled in me - to do the right things all the time.
